
## Describe the factors that can affect cost in Azure


- moving to the cloud transitions from capital expenses (CapEx) to operational expense (OpEx)


- Impacting factors:
	- Resource type
		- when you provision a resource, azure starts a metered instance.
		- examples: storage account may change depending on type, performance tier, access tier, redundnacy settings, and region
		- VMs: licensing for OS, processor + number of cores, etc.
	- Consumption
		- default payment structure is pay-as-you-go
		- can also commit to a set amount of cloud resources in advance and get discounts
		- get get savings on consistent workloads while being able to rapidly increase footprint should the need arise
	- Maintenance
		- sometimes if you provision a resource it will automatically provision supporting resources (e.g. storage and networking get reserved when you spin up a VM instance).
		- make sure that all resources you don't need anymore are actually deprovisioned
	- Geography
		- the location of the resources affects price
		- Cost of power, labor, taxes, etc. depend on the region
	- Network Traffic
		- outbound data transfers are not free - pricing is based on zones
	- Subscription type
		- some subscription types include usage allowances (e.g. free tier)
	- Azure marketplace
		- you can also purchase solutions / services from 3rd party vendors


## Compare pricing and total cost of ownership calculators

- pricing calculator
	- gives an estimated cost of provisioning a resource in azure. Focuses on the cost of provisioned resources in azure.
	- For information purposes only - these prices are only an estimate.
- Total Cost of Ownership Calculator (TCO)
	- compare costs of running an on-prem infrastructure compare to azure cloud infrastructure


## Describe the Azure Cost Management Tool

- Cost management is an azure service that helps avoid situations where you're accidentally paying for a service you don't indend to.

- what is cost management?
	- Provides the ability to quickly check azure resource costs, create alerts,and create budgets
	- cost analysis is a subset of cost management that creates a quick visual for azure costs.
- cost alerts
	- single location to check on all alert types. 3 types of alerts:
		- budget alerts
			- notify you when spending reaches or exceeds the amount defined in the alert condition
		- credit alerts
			- alerty when azure credit monetary commitments are consumed. 
		- department spending quota alerts
			- notifies when department spending reaches a fixed threshold of the quota
- budgets:
	- where you set a spending limit for azure
	- can be based on subscription, resource group, service type, or another criteria

## Describe the purpose of tags

- resource tags provide extra information / metadata about the resources. Useful for:
	- resource management
	- cost management / optimization
	- operations management
	- security
	- governance and regulatory compliance
	- workload optimization and automation
- tags consist of a name and value
- can assign one or more to each resource