
## Describe the purpose of azure blueprints

- lets you standardize cloud subscription or environment deployments.
- define repeatable settings / policies that are applid as new subscriptions are created.
- What are artifacts?
	- each component of a blueprint definition is an artifact
	- can include things like:
		- role assignments
		- policy assignments
		- azure resource manager templates
		- resource groups
- How do azure blueprints help monitor deployments?
	- blueprints are version-able -> can make initial configuration, then make updates and assign a new version to update
	- relationship between a blueprint definition (wahat should be deployed) and the blueprint assignment (what was deployed) is preserved.

## Describe the prupose of Azure Policy

- create, assign, and manage policies that control / audit resources.
- can define individual policies and groups of related policies (initiatives) -> can flag resources and block requests that are noncompliant
- can be set at each level and inherit between levels
- comes with built-in policy and initiative defintions
- can sometimes remediate noncompliant resources (e.g. adding tags when there should be one)
- What are Azure policy initiatives?
	- way of grouping related policies together

## Describe the purpose of resource locks

- prevents a resource from being accidentaly deleted or changed
- can be applied at different levels and are inherited
- 2 types of locks:
	- delete: authorized users can read / write but not delete
	- readOnly: similar to restricting all users to the permissions granted by reader role
- How do I delete or change a locked resource?
	- first remove the lock, then aply any action you want.

## Describe the purpose of the Service Trust Portal

- portal that provides access to content, tools, and resources about MS security, privacy, and compliance practices